README.md, before:

# `Discovery`

> Discover the world of microcontrollers through Rust

This project is developed and maintained by the [Resources team][team].

## License

The documentation is licensed under

- Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License ([LICENSE-CC-BY](LICENSE-CC-BY)
  or https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode)

And the source code is licensed under either of

- Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or
  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

- MIT License ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or
  https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

## Code of Conduct

Contribution to this crate is organized under the terms of the [Rust Code of
Conduct][CoC], the maintainer of this crate, the [Resources team][team], promises
to intervene to uphold that code of conduct.

[CoC]: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[team]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg#the-resources-team

Commit message:

Guide to disussions and issues in README.md
Several questions have ended up in the issues recently. So what about
pointing the discussions section out more prominently?

README.md, after:

# `Discovery`

Discover the world of microcontrollers through
[Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/):

- Read this book on-line at https://docs.rust-embedded.org/discovery/
- Start working on the examples from this repository
- You've got questions?
    - Have a look at our [discussions section on
      GitHub](https://github.com/rust-embedded/discovery/discussions)
    - May be it got already answered there
    - If not, start a new discussion
- You've found an issue?
    - Have a look at our [issues on
      GitHub](https://github.com/rust-embedded/discovery/issues)
    - May be there is already a workaround
    - If not, please open a new one - or even better - a [pull
      request](https://github.com/rust-embedded/discovery/pulls) for solving
      it
- Have fun and enjoy!

This project is developed and maintained by the [Resources team][team].

## License

The documentation is licensed under

- Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License ([LICENSE-CC-BY](LICENSE-CC-BY)
  or https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode)

And the source code is licensed under either of

- Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or
  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

- MIT License ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or
  https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

## Code of Conduct

Contribution to this crate is organized under the terms of the [Rust Code of
Conduct][CoC], the maintainer of this crate, the [Resources team][team], promises
to intervene to uphold that code of conduct.

[CoC]: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[team]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg#the-resources-team
